Hi.
My name is Danny Jessee, and I would like to welcome you to this module,
data replication using AWS services.
Let's learn how we can make copies and backups of our data for protection using
AWS services starting with cross‑region replication in S3.
As the name suggests, cross‑region replication,
or CRR in S3,
allows you to automatically make copies of your data between S3
buckets in different regions and these are exact copies of the
original objects all the way down to the object keys,
version IDs, metadata, and creation times.
As an added layer of protection, though,
objects you delete from the source bucket do not get
automatically deleted in the destination.
Replication is done asynchronously typically within 15
minutes of creating or updating an object,
and data is always encrypted in transit as it is replicated.
Now,
there are a lot of reasons why you might want to do this perhaps for
efficiency or to minimize latency if users are accessing objects in S3 from
disparate geographic locations around the world.
But from a security standpoint,
the most common use case for this is to meet compliance requirements.
So If you're storing critical log data in S3,
maybe you have to have copies of this data maintained for 5 years at
locations that are at least 500 miles apart, so outside the
boundaries of a single region. And these buckets can be within the
same account or different accounts.
In either case,
setting this up will require an IAM role for S3 that has permission to
replicate objects from the source bucket on your behalf, and if the
destination bucket is in a different account,
you also need to make sure that bucket has a bucket policy that allows the
owner of the source bucket to replicate objects there.
Now, since this course is focused on security,
it's important to point out one big caveat here,
which is how CRR is handled for objects encrypted with server‑side encryption.
For unencrypted objects,
replication is easy and only requires what we've already
discussed, but for objects that are encrypted server‑side
with customer provided keys.
So remember for SSEC,
when we had to specify our own encryption key in the request
header, those objects cannot be replicated at all.
Same goes for objects encrypted using client‑side encryption since replication
obviously takes place server‑side, and by default, S3 will also not replicate
objects that are encrypted at rest with SSE S3 or SSE KMS so that's what the AWS
provided or with customer managed keys.
And this makes sense if you think about it because remember that
these keys exist within a particular region.
So if I'm in US‑West‑1 and I encrypt my object with a key in US‑West‑1,
I'm not going to be able to replicate this encrypted object as‑is to
US‑East‑1 because I won't have access to the key from US‑West‑1 to be able
to decrypt it there, but we can work around this and still replicate
objects encrypted with SSE S3 or SSE KMS.
So what we need to do in these cases is actually specify a different key
that does exist within the destination region, and again,
this can be the AWS provided key or a customer managed one,
and AWS will then re encrypt the replicated object in the
destination region using that key instead of the one that
encrypted the original object in the source region.
Now keep in mind that each of these replications will use KMS API calls and you
do pay for those and you may even get throttled by KMS depending on the volume
of objects you are replicating, but you can always request a limit increase if
you do. And don't forget beyond that,
we also need to grant the IAM role that S3 is assuming for
replication, the ability to decrypt our objects using the CMK from
the source region, as well as the ability to encrypt objects using
the CMK in the destination region.
And if the destination bucket is in a different account,
we also have to specify the account associated with the source
bucket in the destination accounts key policy for the KMS key
used to encrypt data in the destination.
Now let's go ahead and walk through setting up cross‑region replication in the console.